---
layout: post
title: Natural Mysticism - Tantra Maya
categories: [tantra maya] 
image:
    feature: venados.jpg
---
When I tell people that no matter how meaningless circumstances in one’s life may seem, and no matter how much one has suffered and that there is always meaning to be found in whatever situation, people sometimes get offended. This is especially true with my activist friends. They have seen so much injustice and suffering in this world that it is quite rational for them to doubt some kind of “higher order” or meaning in this apparently absurd existence. How can I be speaking of truth and beauty in a world such as this? I admit that I am quite affected by their honest criticisms. Sometimes it makes me feel a little bourgeois. However, to be fair with myself, I am not speaking about belief systems that are convenient to a certain class mentality or a life-style dependent upon the exploitation of others so that I can smugly sit back in my armchair and reflect upon truth and beauty while monsters like Clinton, Obama, Blair, Trump, Putin, Kim Jong etc. are exterminating humanity.

I have come to such conclusions not through comfortable living, but through austerity, not through faith, but through experience. I have never had much in this life and the more I live, the less I seem to have. Whatever I haven’t renounced willingly ends up being taken from me anyhow. Such is the path of contemplation. This is happiness and freedom.

Tantra Maya, like Tantra and Taoism, was developed by people who possessed almost nothing and lived in the forests or mountains. I continually find this as a source of inspiration and hope that others can see that there is a great potential to find practical forms of spirituality that aren’t products of the historical dialectic, that weren’t created for the convenience of empire, or for the comfort of the ruling class, or, in modern times, the pseudo-spiritual market. I don’t ask that we all become ascetics like the yogis and taoists, but if they can find bliss with almost nothing, then perhaps those of us who are more comfortable yet miserable can begin to understand what these misfits are speaking about.

Tantra Maya is a synthesis between the ancient spiritual practices of the Maya and the classical tantric meditation system of India. Tantra is derived from 2 Sanskrit words, “ta”, which means dullness, and “tra”, which signifies expansion. Tantra is therefore “expansion from dullness.” It is the rational and ethical spiritual practice of using yoga and meditation to expand one’s spiritual potential. My wife was a student of Quetzal Manik, a Mayan healer and yogi from Campeche. She interprets “maya” as the spiritual practices of the Mayan people. These practices have been transmitted through mayan lineages for centuries. While writing about Tantra Maya, I interpret “maya” according to the Sanskrit definition: the divine mystery of how the infinite being hides itself in the finite realm through each and every being only to eventually desire a return to a state of essential oneness with the infinite consciousness. Tantra Maya is therefore the advanced and experimental study of Tantra as a universal intuitive science as well as a system of Mayan meditation. 

The Tantra Maya healing and meditation practices are remarkably similar to the oriental practices of Tantra Yoga. Like Tantra Yoga of India, Tantra Maya was developed in the jungle by Mayan mystics and healers who lived close to nature. Many of the exercises and meditation postures are named after animals. Both systems are practical sciences in that the practitioner follow certain disciplines and meditate to understand and verify the theoretical knowledge offered by these systems. 
Pluma Blanca was a healer, yogi, and astrologer. They were all one science for him, however.  I have previously written about his knowledge of tantra yoga in a few short stories.  I learned some meditation techniques necessary to merely begin to understand astrology. He said it was an intuitive science that needed direct, mystical experience. This requires one to surrender one’s little microcosmic existence into the Macrocosm, the universe as a whole. This type of mystical experience was very different than what I had previously understood as mysticism. I suppose my ideas were more classical. I always liked the Upanishads, Toaism, and contemplatives like Meister Eckhart, Plotinus and Ramana Maharshi. They represented the peak spiritual knowledge in my opinion. Tantra Maya is a very elevated form of nature mysticism. Its purpose is to understand the pure subjectivity of the inner self, like in classical mysticism, yet at the same time develop a deep connection with the natural creation. One contemplates the with spirit within for self-realization while one connects to the subtle realms of nature to work with and serve the living, vibrant Macrocosm. Pluma Blanca also taught this style of meditation, although with more of a tone of Zen formlessness regarding the mystery of the absolute.

Astrology, however, required a different style of meditation. One doesn’t need to go upward but downward, toward the center of the earth. One can only meditate this way after having awakened the kundalini to rise upward and sustain it in a higher center. Meanwhile, the higher mind of the Macrocosm helps the yogi to understand the secrets of the earth below. The Anahata Chakra or Spiritual Heart is the perfect place for this work. It is in the center of the body as well as the center of the mind. It is a higher spiritual center, while at the same time it maintains contact with the grosser mental levels below. It may guide and purify them and lead the lower instincts into purer expressions of spiritual awareness. It is the seat of the Intuitive Mind (Vijinamaya Kosa) and gives one deep knowledge of self, others, and the whole universe. The purer is one’s spiritual heart, the purer is one’s intuitive knowledge. One cannot be ambitious with this path. Only mature meditators whose lives are already deeply fused into the life of the Macrocosm of Brahma can perform these practices. Perhaps with further investigation one may find a link between them and some schools of Shaeva Tantra (Tantra inspired by Shiva). I also share the writings of Anandamurti on this site. Anandamurti systematized the ancient practices of the Tantric Yogis of India with very lucid, modern interpretations. His philosophy has been preserved in over 200 works that Anandamurti himself dictated. Tantra Maya uses the Mayan spiritual meditative practices of Quetzal Manik along with the tantra philosophy of Anandamurti as a rational guide and inspiration for these subtle, introspective practices.

read more on Tantra Maya:

<p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 18px; white-space: pre-line; -webkit-tap-highlight-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0);">Stories of Pluma Blanca: &nbsp;<a href="http://elmisterio.org/stories-of-pluma-blanca/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">http://elmisterio.org/stories-of-pluma-blanca/</a></span></span></p>
<p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 18px; white-space: pre-line; -webkit-tap-highlight-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0);">Microvita and Tantra Maya: &nbsp;<a href="http://elmisterio.org/microvita-and-tantra-maya/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">http://elmisterio.org/microvita-and-tantra-maya/</a></span></span></p>

