---
layout: post
title: Ancestral Memory and the Eternal Recurrence
categories: [tantra maya tantric rebellion] 
image:
    feature: 
---

Everything we experience in human life is an expression of the Macrocosm. Whether one calls the Macrocosm “Brahma”, or “Tao”, or a “Unified Quantum Field”, it is the source and ground of our physical, mental and spiritual being. The source of the Macrocosm is purely spiritual, It is pure Consciousness; the silent I-Witness behind the active, oscillating mind. When you are quiet, this infinity is yours. The mental part of the macrocosm only faintly manifests in human intelligence. When humans become more intelligent they will have then merged a little deeper into the mental and spiritual aspects of the Macrocosm. Only the outer reflection of this pure and unified web of being is material. It is material and separate only in our minds, however. One can have a spiritual experience of the physical world of matter and form and still not be convinced of the absoluteness of matter. Form is but a manifestation of spirit.

Everything and everyone has deep, reserve parts of their being that are latent and only waiting to manifest when the external ego is a little more mature and calm. A person who has lived away from civilization for many years returns to see the world of form and matter. His physical world had become the mountain, river, sky, and body. They all secretly speak of spirit, however. He remembers the old forms of cars and malls and wars and all of the dread of material existence. These forms only seem a little more dead now.

If one really believes in the reality of these things then the mind actually becomes like those things. Mind is a living entity that vibrates and takes on the form of material objects. “As you think, so you become.” If you believe that “objects” are a part of the unified web of the Macrocosm, then matter is a delight. Your being may flow into the being of all at the delight of a flower or taste of a berry. Things vibrate and are sustained and invigorated by an invisible, vibrant energy that pervades even empty space. If objects are something to purchase, posses, and fill inner voids, then the objective material world is quite simply an existential hell of separation from natural truth.

If people are a manifestation of spirit, then “brother” and “sister” are everywhere. If people are objects instead of Subjects, then we have separation, continual strife and chaos.

Places and spaces, physical, mental, and spiritual- all vibrate with the tone of spirit behind them. Energy and ideas congeal into things. A sensitive person will easily detect an unhappy house or an unhappy city. There is an aura of discomfort vibrating around these places. The mental energy that created and inhabits these spaces is desperate, compulsive, separate and fearful. Humanity’s unconscious being is simply revealed in our social and personal habitations. My teacher, Dada Chidghananda ("Dada" = "brother"), couldn’t stand entering cities. He always saw deep into the being of others and knew even their inmost thoughts. When he entered the city he was bombarded by so many unseen thoughts and energies that inhabit those spaces. Little was hidden from him. It is the same phenomenon with cyber spaces. To enter the internet, most especially social media, is but to enter into all of the unseen mental desires and needs that drive humans to project themselves into mental-social spaces. People also project their unseen needs into these spaces and they in fact vibrate and live there. Some spaces are vibrant while some are really dead and only try to devitalize the mind with cyber reflections of what was already a mundane, unnatural, and uncreative mental projection to begin with.

Nietzche spoke of a rather odd phenomenon that he called the “Eternal Recurrence.” According to this theory the reality that we construct by our own free will repeats itself eternally. We may try to escape our freedom by taking refuge in social conventions, traditions, religion, or philosophical systems, but they are all always projections of our limitations, weaknesses, and our desire to escape this radical freedom that we have somehow inherited. In the end we always confront ourselves and our projections, eternally. He was deeply immersed in Buddhist literature as a Sanskrit philologist and this idea seems to be a very original and subjective interpretation of the archetypal idea of reincarnation that he surely encountered in his studies.

When I was 22 my mentor Chidghananda spoke to me of my supposed past lives. He only did this because I playfully tricked him into it. I knew he wouldn’t tell me anything, so, instead I asked him to verify if what I thought I knew was true or not. He said, “Okay, tell me, what do you know?” I mentioned a few details from recurrent dreams and then he then elaborated on them. When he saw that his vision extended mine and that he was telling me new information, he laughed and said “You got me.” I knew he could see very deeply into Reality although he rarely spoke about occult issues. He was a true yogi, a classic Upanishadic contemplative with a great devotional heart and didn’t get lost on psychic or occult issues. I “tricked” him to speak a little on this subject of reincarnation. However, what he told me was very very serious and took away all sensational mystique of this phenomenon. He only told me what I already knew, really. He barely exceeded that, and only clarified what were for me new revelations about my inner life. Nobody had ever guided me so clearly in my personal development. I had two very loving grandfathers in this earthly life, and Chidghananda beamed with the love of a hundred noble grandfathers. He always spoke of his guru, whom he called “Baba.” “Baba was Baba, a complete mystery,” he always told me. He was an infinite mystery that he (Chidghananda) never tried to capture in any final, dogmatic conception.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oi_HRlNnWjI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

When my spiritual grandfathers in India began to depart from this world, I began to see where they went, because they went to a familiar place inside of us all. They all went into a blazing light. Some remained working there for some time like figures of light who only try to ensconce the living in their light. Later, they disappeared into the light without form, while others just merged directly after death into the infinite white light beyond death and birth, where not even angels fathom.

I felt like they sent me a spark of love so as to say good bye, or to say hello. They only went into the Witness, the very same Witness which is mine as well as theirs as well as yours.  Their lives somehow became mine. Some went on into moksha at death (union with the godhead and no re-birth, similar to the idea of Nirvana), but many took mukti (liberation from reincarnation but oneness with the eternal activity of the Cosmic Mind of Brahma or G.O.D.- Generator, Operator, Destroyer.) Those who enter into mukti wait for the absolute emancipation of moksha while they remain active and united with the Cosmic Mind serving the entire universe. They can get a lot of work accomplished because they are at one with the infinite and eternal activity of the mind of Brahma as opposed to being at one with the godhead beyond generation, operation, and destruction of the created universe that comes from the infinite source of the godhead. Even the ones that went into moksha left some important gifts before their absolute union with the Infinite One beyond even the mind of Brahma. They were a non-local, decentralized force for their departed guru and continue to pass on that sublime shakti within the collective mind of the living disciples from now into the future. Chidghananda never died for me. When he left his physical body I felt him near me whenever I thought of him. He showed me the way to the guru in life and he only continues to do so in death. Our Dead Dada’s Society is everywhere and nowhere; it is super-personal, decentralized,  free and wild.


Chidghananda told me that my work was done, and that I only had to a little more of a martial form of meditation, or sadhana. Other than that, I had no other duties. Sure, he told me I could write books, raise money for service projects or help out in any other way if possible, but my only real duty was to fulfill my spiritual duty with this sadhana. After so many years of trying to understand this, I came to the conclusion that those days were but an experience of liberation from past samskaras (reactions to previous actions). I was free to create new actions in the present, not blindly or impulsively, but with compassion and conscience. This liberation has more to do with the realization of the inner “I” rather than the outer “I am” of the ego or personality. The personality may still exist but it has no past nor pending desires. One becomes innocent and simple. Memories of life begin to be whitened, purified and unified in the eternal present beyond recurrence, even the eternal recurrence. Yet Chidghananda further told me that I would pass through inconceivable sufferings but that I would never fall because the guru would guide even these difficult adventures. Sure enough, there has been nothing but conflict and resolution, but also a little revolution. Falls were controlled falls, always below and to the left.

“The dice of the gods are always loaded.” No actions are original or separate. Free will only exists in theory. When the past ceases to exist then the ego is a mirage and the question of “free will” becomes silly and infantile. Only Brahma (The Macrocosm in itself) is real, yet one must continue to choose and act in the human world while paying the eternal sacrament of sacrificing the fruits of “independent” action into the eternal fire of Brahma. 

While I am hesitant to speak of past lives or future lives, I do think it is important to recognize the idea of “reincarnation” if we know that it really effects us in an experiential, phenomenal manner. I think it is more important to see repeating cycles within ones present incarnation rather than try to see them in previous ones. Shrii Cube once told me that he never wanted to know his past lives because he is only just beginning to understand his present one. Nature is intelligent enough to show one’s samskaras through this very life if one develops a little intuition. Life itself teaches all of the patterns of conditioning, both inherited and aquired, by always bringing us back to where our issues lie.

I once became good friends with a young monk from europe. He was an exceptionally bright person, fairly well educated but not an intellectual in the formal sense. He seemed like the type of person who remembered everything he ever learned and that school was probably very easy for him. I think his intelligence became more focused on intuitive and practical questions than intellectual ones.

One day we were talking about how very few people in the order really understand ideas like karma and past lives yet everybody seemed to accept these ideas implicitly because the guru spoke of such ideas and people just accept them because of that. He was more critical, however. He told me that if one wants to know of one’s past lives, then it is really as simple as recalling one’s earliest childhood memories. Before the abstract intellect and self-concept develops in a child, their minds often wander beyond time and the present incarnation. Small children can recall their past lives and in their day-dreaming are actually remembering their pasts. His ideas were sincere and he seemed to be speaking from experience, which was much more than the dogmatic people who just accepted these ideas because they made some sense or just because the guru said that they were true. He told me how he remembered very clearly since his childhood that he was a Russian monk in his past life.

I recall this conversation several years later. I was never interested in knowing about past lives, but the idea of clearly remembering all of my early childhood was very appealing. I felt that as time goes on my memories become purer and clearer and that childhood was a well-spring of happiness. Sometimes I would meet people who suffered things that were unimaginable for me, traumas in childhood that had left them psychologically hindered. Later I would have dreams about their state of mind. It was sometimes incomprehensible because I did not have the experience in my own life to draw similarities with. Later, I would begin to have dreams about traumas that happened to me. I knew these dreams weren’t mine but that somehow our sharing of these powerful emotions worked their way into my own sub-conscious and I began to dream of them as if they were my complexes. I found myself as the protagonist in these dreams and experienced terrible traumas. When I awoke i was not disturbed but relieved. I felt that the dream helped me release this unprocessed content that my mind was experiencing with another. For this reason was I interested in early memories. Mine seemed so positive that the shared experiences of others didn’t leave a mark on me. I felt that my own past was a mighty fortress that no present suffering, mine as well as others, could penetrate.

One night I lie awake trying to clearly see and feel my earliest childhood memories. One was actually a dream that I remember from when I was very young. It was strange that one of my first memories was actually a dream. In the dream I was sitting in my high chair surrounded by mysterious figures. They were kind and loving but altogether different entities. I always remembered that dream but could never figure out who those strange loving beings were. Their skin was dark, their eyes large, and their faces were very round. When I grew older and learned about surrealistic art I thought that perhaps I was dreaming of some primitive archetypes as they really did look like masks. I saw the dream as a union of my life with the life of my human ancestors. I was never sure about the interpretation but the memory always produced a feeling of security and love.

So I lay awake that night trying to feel and remember that dream; trying to see clearer the faces and ask my memory is there was something more. The vision wasn’t any clearer and I still saw the same faces. It had been several years since I had tried to recall this dream and I had encountered many new people in my life. I began to think that these faces were the faces of indigenous mesoamericans. I liked the idea and it made me think that perhaps I dreamed of significant people I would meet in my future while I was a toddler. All of these very personal and idiosyncratic ideas would have remained solely in the unconfirmed and unverifiable realm of imagination if it weren’t for a certain experience that occurred at precisely the same moment as I had those ideas. There arose the idea that one of those faces was actually my wife. At exactly the same time, not even a second apart, my wife awakes and tells me that she was dreaming that she was visiting me in my childhood. I immediately knew that the dreamed happened right now, not in childhood nor in the present flow of time, but in the Eternal Now. It is from this space that we can understand our lives and see all of the meaningful connections, both past and future. Perhaps this is where one also is able to see beyond one’s birth? Children live more in the eternal present but we can return there at any time if we know how to understand and interpret the flow of consciousness both in and beyond time.

I had a strong spiritual awakening at 21 years of age. Concurrently, I got caught up in an absurd revolution in West Bengal, India, where I was accused of being an arms dealer. It was absurd because I was an innocent philosophy student hanging out at an Indian ashram and knew nothing of the mafia side of Ananda Marga which linked us to the arms. Ananda Marga introduced me to Indian intelligence, Interpol, and the CIA. I wanted nothing to do with this scene. I came to distrust most people who wear uniforms in Ananda Marga, and I still do. I always retained a deep reverence for my teachers at Ananda Nagar, however.  Very few people in Ananda Marga were complicit with the CIA, but they were very key people who have helped disintegrate that organization.

Last year, at age 42, I passed through another spiritual storm even stronger than when I was 21. I had not been around Ananda Marga for 15 years but I heard news of how they want to sue us for publicly promoting “their” supposedly universal mantra, “Baba Nam Kevalam.” We even got a death threat from an Avadhuta preist, "Headkicker," who kicks non-compliant monks in their heads and threatens people with death when they don’t submit to his will. I was also amazed to hear that nobody had ever done anything about Shamitananda, the monk who tried to murder a nun with cobra venom.  I knew the attempted murder was true, just as did everybody else in these circles. I confessed for him and announced publicly “Shamitananda is CobraKiller” and immediately went into the breathless state of samadhi for 8 hours while the Ananda Marga followers of Shamitananda dined on cognitive dissonance.   The mind remained absorbed in the sound of OM for this period.

This experience helped me to realize that Ananda Marga is a spiritual entity, a set of ideas and practices with its own built in self-defense system.  The social organization tries to reflect these sublime principles and practices, but is not in essence Ananda Marga.  Ananda Marga is the path to convert physical energy into psychic stamina and further convert this stamina into spiritual cognition, which brings spiritual bliss, or ananda.  Ananda Marga is a vehicle of dharma and those who misuse or distort its teachings degenerate very rapidly and in very extreme manners as they act against dharma, the moral laws of the universe.  Similarly, those who defend the true path, or marga, are protected by it.  Ananda is the blessing to which this path leads.


Nothing in this universe is an accident, all is incident. The closer our meditation moves toward the First Cause of OM, the more we see the universe as the dream of the Supreme Consciousness instead of a series of disconnected accidents in alienated minds. What seemed like accidents were but misconceptions of reality from minds too caught up in the mundane to notice the subtle movements of meaning trying to break through our layers of obliquity. Reality is more meaningful and circumstances in life have more of a symbolic and moral meaning than our intellect and our mundane desires can conceive of. Creation is always trying to guide us closer to the Atman by showing us the way through life by creating interesting dramas and synchronizations. "Time is a moving image of eternity," wrote Plato. Sometimes the signs that appear to guide us appear from beyond time. The responses sometimes manifest before all of the questions and conflicts manifest in our awareness. Perhaps a dream foretells something important or some great synchronicity continues to repeat itself cyclically in our lives. Somehow, one was prepared for what was yet to come and this synchronicity inspires one with awe. The greater "I" within shows one from beyond time what one needs to know to let go of time's little tricks and live in the eternal now.

I recently resolved one of the greatest mysteries of my life. I have never been able to provide anything close to a rational explanation for this most absurd experience. My friends and family have always enjoyed this story.  People who don't know me may think me crazy.

I was living with some yogi monks in the Ozarks while in my mid-twenties. One morning I had to pick up a nun very early in the morning at a far away bus station. She was asleep on the return trip. Just when daylight broke and I could see the beautiful countryside there appeared some flying object in my peripheral vision. I turned my head and saw just a dark blur about 50 feet away from me along the side of the highway. It looked like it was coming straight toward me. There was only an open field behind its trajectory and it appeared to come out of nowhere. I had at least a few seconds to see it getting closer. At about 20 feet away I realized it was an object that looked like a frozen turkey wrapped in plastic. As it got closer I could see the image of the flying frozen turkey getting clearer and closer. I was dumbfounded. Time was moving very slowly and I kept asking myself "is that really a turkey?" All of the sudden it crashed into the front of the truck. The nun woke up and asked what that sound was. She was startled. I told her just to go back to sleep because she would never believe me. She couldn't go back to sleep and so she asked me to tell her. I told her and we had a good laugh. We joked that I had been handling too much basil on our farm.  It always made me feel happy to work with the basil and make pesto.  Perhaps it made me too happy and gave me creative visions?  I felt that this experience made us friends. She noticed it was dawn and told me the meaning of the her monastic name, Usha, or dawn. It refers to a state of sunrise when birds start to sing. 

Years later this person got involved with a dark rebellion within her order.  She started making alliances with perverse people like the infamous CobraKiller. I was not a monk but they wanted me on their side and insisted on alliance but I resisted. I just got out of jail in India for the dirty acts of this order. I was in the wrong place at such a time and I was involved in an international legal case. I defended this organization in front of the press of India and the BBC while I was under house arrest. Everyone loved me because I spoke well of them but they never told me the truth about the Purulia Arms Drop. I was a poster boy. They knew that I was suspicious and they felt ashamed that they were lying to me. They used to say I was somebody so very special and then they started to hate me as much as they loved me. This nun hated me so much that she began to attack my mother by creating lies about her character so as to completely destroy our image in this society. Other monastics also jumped on the band wagon and started inventing all sorts of lies. It harmed my mother very much and sent her on a negative spiral in life in which she ended up being very depressed. My mother followed me into this yoga society and hardly even knew these people yet they attacked her. I have never tried to forgive the nun. I have always thought someday in the future I will forgive her, but seeing how she has been very cruel to others as well, it is easy to put it off. 

The other day a friend reminded me of the name Usha when describing the bird songs at dawn. I recalled the experience with the nun Usha and thought of the "bird song" that morning 20 years ago manifested as the thud of a big Butterball turkey! I wondered why I had such a mysterious experience with a person that turned out to be very negative. Finally, artha, eureka! It was now so perfectly clear. Usha was the goddess who called the dawn, not with a beautiful bird song, but with a dead turkey that crashed against the bumper. She would later attack me and my mother but the universe had already chided her from beyond time and has her showcased in its Theatre of the Absurd. Who needs revenge? Everything is already resolved. It is so easy to forgive a turkey.

### The Pentagon In Asheville

So many years after the Purulia Arms Drop, the arrest, house arrest, and Indian Supreme Court case, I contemplate my memories of Ananda Nagar and remembered how there was a humurous, supposedly ex-Marine giving fitness training to illiterate tribal boys who were used as lackeys by Ananda Marga. At the time I really believed that Viirendra, the ex-Marine, was helping train official guards to protect the election boxes of the Indian state for the upcoming elections. It sounded rather odd that the Bengali government would trust its foe Ananda Marga with such a duty, but I didn't criticize this inconsistency at the time because I was so distracted by the humorous environment of the "fitness training." Virendra finally got to be in charge as a drill sargent. He had some sensitive yogi qualities but was really a jar-head at heart.

The trainees underwent rifle training one day with a b.b. gun. All 30 of them took turns with the one and only b.b. gun. It was just like the one I got on my 8th birthday. An old guard of the V.S.S. (the elite guard of Ananda Marga) took pride in being the leading official and decided to instruct the trainees himself. He instructed one boy to point the gun at a nun, who like us, was peering over the fence and snickering at these antics. "Okay, you hit the target, now point the gun at the nun, right between her eyes," the guard said. The nun was laughing and screaming at the same time saying "no, no" while we were roaring with laughter at these Gomer Pyle antics. Viirendra grabbed the gun, but invoking the archetypal drill sergeant from Full Metal Jacket and screamed, "I'm gonna shove that gun up your ass, soldier." That sweet nun and the Indian boy fortunately couldn't understand these words. It was all too comic and absurd to accept as reality. This is ample proof that Ananda Marga is not essentially a terrorist organization. The system tried to impose it on them with infiltrators like Viirendra, but militant radicalism really wasn't in the nature of the majority of the monks and nuns.

I was recalling this several years later and remembered this incident. I already knew there was great conspiracy and CIA infiltration in Ananda Marga. I hardly understood who were the links in this alliance, who were the betrayers of Ananda Marga that help the CIA turn Ananda Marga into a terrorist organization, but later realized that I already knew the most important conspirator. I almost forgot about Viirendra entirely until recalling those memories years later. I recalled that he disappeared just a day or two before the Arms Drop and some of us simple observers were sent to jail. And a few years after that I hear that there is a pentagonal meditation room in the Asheville, N.C., in an Ananda Marga community where Viirendra has settled. That is ironic because in my experience, people in Ananda Marga, especially in the U.S., put special spiritual significance in architecture, especially architecture for meditation rooms. Hexagons and hexagrams are more of their style, not pentagons.  At the very least, it is a curious synchronicity.

Prior to this home, he lived in a recluse ranch in Colorado where a proud monk named Krsnananda would visit him. K. told me himself that Viirendra had to report to the people in the black helicopters that came to see him at his hidden ranch. K. also told me that his brother, who is also a monk, was in the airplane when the arms were dropped. As a cresciendo I also get news that Ananda Marga made it on the top 10 terrorist list of the FBI around the year 2000. This understanding turned my whole Ananda Marga experience upside down and inside out. All the while that I was lost in deep meditation at Ananda Nagar and beginning my studies at the research institute, these miscreants were planning an international conspiracy with the CIA against Ananda Marga.

The producer of the documentary cites another author that considers it is likely that Kim Peter, or Nirvananda, was aided and protected by the CIA. The producer leaves the question open for scrutiny.   Some people in A.M. were informants to the CIA and the senior members of the organization knew of this. Kim Peter worked in North America with a gang of A.M. monks. He is still seen as a Robin Hood type of figure.  In the beginning, they only smuggled electronics into India to raise money for orphanages and schools. However, they later moved on to greater ventures. Many members of this underground mafia extended into immoral and dangerous international mafia connections. Some were caught and forced to be informers to the FBI and the CIA. I knew who some of these people were and I think they were used as tools to help frame Ananda Marga as a terrorist organization. After the Purulia arms drop Ananda Marga was placed on the FBI’s top 10 global terrorist groups list for several years. Now, they are practically non-existent in North America.  However, we must thank them immensely for showing us a bad example of Ananda Marga. They have made it very clear what Ananda Marga is not and have perhaps liberated this great philosophy from a corrupt international crime family that Ananda Marga has become.

I spent 6 months under house arrest in India waiting for our trial in the Purulia Arms Drop case in which I came out completely clean. Police were always watching me during that time. Due to this my Irish friend once got a little down.  To cheer him up I used my own thick imitation Irish accent that the Indian military police could not understand very clearly. I made jokes about their sadistic leiutenant’s “fat arse” and his old, surplus World War I rifle. We roared with laughter always.

Ever since Purulia I have had interactions with highly intelligent American citizens who are ex-military and highly educated. They knew I had nothing to do with Purulia and we had very interesting philosophical conversations. Instead of talking about Ananda Marga, we had conversations about the Atman and how the idea of “Atman is Brahma” (microcosm is Macrocosm, and vice-versa) is related to medieval neo-platonic ideas. He even cited John Scotus Erugenia! Still, I got regular visits from such people, but we never discussed the social organization of Ananda Marga.

Last year, here in the present in Mexico, I got visits from less-prepared intelligence agents, apparently for reasons other than Ananda Marga. They were nothing like the U.S. agents, and are most likely common criminals with very little education who work for the corrupt narco state. We have had many visits from many dangerous people- military, paramilitary, narco-assassins and even a spy who infiltrated us and later confessed. There is much tension in our area. Many politicians have stolen land around here with hopes of future fracking contracts. Their pit-bulls always seemed to come on days when I had very high meditations and no harm ever came to us. As I wrote about in The Quixotic Narco Slayers, we have recently been under seige by narco military camps that have surrounded us for several years. I wrote about a powerful narco-politician that has terrorized us. Recently, we discovered that an Ananda Marga monk, "Headkicker," has ties to this politician. Normally, only in the wildest psychotic projections are such connections possible, and so I was dumbfounded to really believe it was true. I could not believe that Reality created a connection between the crooks of Ananda Marga and the narco politicians in Mexico, that once again these spiritual “revolutionaries” are lurking about in the cess pools of political underworlds! Headkicker told me that if I didn’t erase my critiques of A.M., then he would use his influences with the governor to quiet us. 

And so here we go again on the upward spiral path of eternal time, like a mountain pass that spirals upward. Each spiral trip and return to previous points is a little higher and one can see the past with more clarity. These higher cycles become shorter and faster and ever so more intense as we strive for the apex point in the Atman.
